# Software tools you'll need for this course

**How this specialization was designed.** The learning approach in this
specialization is to start from use cases and then dig into algorithms and
methods, what we call a case-studies approach. We are very excited about this
approach, since it has worked well in several other courses. The [first course,
Machine Learning Foundations,](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ml-foundations)
was focused on understanding how ML can be used in various cases studies, and
the follow on courses will dig into the details of algorithms and methods for
each of the main ML areas.  **We expect all learners to have taken the first
course, before taking this course.**

**Regression - A Machine Learning Approach.**  This course focuses regression,
one of the most important types of data analysis, with a wide range of
applications.  After successfully completing this course, you will be able to
use regression methods in practice, implement some of the most fundamental
algorithms in this area, and choose the right model for your task.  In addition,
you will become proficient in core ML concepts that transcend regression
settings:  you will understand the practical implications of fundamental ML
concepts, such as the bias-variance tradeoff, key ML data analysis techniques,
such as cross validation, and the most important optimization techniques used to
learn ML models, gradient descent and coordinate descent.

# Programming assignment format

Every module will be associated with one or two programming assignments.  The
goal of these assignments is to have hands-on experience on the techniques we
discuss in lectures.  To test your implementations, you will be asked questions
in a quiz following the assignment.  

In every module, you will be implementing a core regression technique or other
ML concept from scratch.  In modules where we have two programming assignments: 

* the first will be focused on exploring fundamental concepts, such as
regularization or cross-validation, with an existing implementation of the
regression method, and
* the second will be focused on implementing the regression method for that module
from scratch.

# Why Python

In this course, we are going to use the Python programming language to build
several intelligent applications that use machine learning. Python is a simple
scripting language that makes it easy to interact with data. Furthermore, Python
has a wide range of packages that make it easy to get started and build
applications, from the simplest ones to the most complex. Python is widely used
in industry, and is becoming the de facto language for data science in industry.
(R is another alternative language. However, R tends to be significantly less
scalable and has very few deployment tools, thus it is seldom used for
production code in industry. It is possible, but discouraged to use R in this
specialization.)

We will also encourage the use the Jupyter Notebook in our assignments. The
Jupyter Notebook is a simple interactive environment for programming with
Python, which makes it really easy to share your results. Think about it as a
combination of a Python terminal and a wiki page. Thus, you can combine code,
plots and text to explain what you did. (You are not required to use Jupyter
Notebook in the assignments, and should have no problem using straight up Python
if you prefer.)

# Useful software tools

Although you will be implementing algorithms from scratch in various
assignments, some software tools will be useful in the process.  In particular,
there are four types of data tools that would be helpful:

* **Data manipulation**: to help you slice-and-dice the data, create new features,
and clean the data.
* **Matrix operations**: in the inner loops of your algorithms, you will do
various matrix operations, and libraries focus on these will speed-up your code
significantly. 
* **Plotting library**: so you can visualize data and models. 
* **Pre-implemented ML algorithms**: in some assignments where we are focusing on
fundamental ML concepts, such as cross-validation or the bias-variance tradeoff,
you will use a pre-implemented ML algorithms to help focus your efforts on the
fundamentals.

## Tools for data manipulation

For data manipulation, we recommend using SFrame, an open-source,
highly-scalable Python library for data manipulation included as part of the
Turi Create library.  An alternative is the [Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/)
library.  A huge advantage of SFrame over Pandas is that with SFrame, you are
not limited to datasets that fit in memory, which allows you to deal with large
datasets, even on a laptop. (The SFrame API is very similar to Pandas' API.
[Here is a doc showing the relationship between the two of
them.](https://turi.com/learn/translator/))

## Tools for matrix operation

For matrix operations, we strongly recommend [Numpy](http://www.numpy.org/), an
open-source Python library that provides fast performance, for data that fits in
memory.  

## Tools for plotting

For plotting, we strongly recommend you use
[Matplotlib](http://matplotlib.org/), an open-source Python library with
extensive plotting functionality.  

## Tools with pre-implemented ML algorithms

For the few assignments where you will be using pre-implemented ML algorithms,
we recommend you use [Turi Create](https://github.com/apple/turicreate), which
we used in the first course, a package we have been working on for many years
now, and has seen an exciting adoption curve, especially in industry with folks
building real applications. A popular alternative is to use
[scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/). Turi Create is more scalable
than scikit-learn and simpler to use when your data is not numeric vectors. Both
Turi Create and scikit-learn is open-source.  **In this course, most of the
assignments are about implementing algorithms from scratch, so this choice is
more flexible than in the first course. **We are happy, however, for you to use
any tool(s) of your liking. As you will notice, we are only grading the output
of your programs, so the specific software tool is not the focus of the course.
More details on using other tools are at the end of this doc.  

It's important to emphasize that this specialization is **not** about providing
training for a specific software package. The goal of the specialization is for
your effort to be spent on learning the fundamental concepts and algorithms
behind machine learning in a hands-on fashion. These concepts transcend any
single package. What you learn here you can use whether you write code from
scratch, use any existing ML packages out there, or any that may be developed in
the future. We are happy to hear that so many of you are enjoying this approach
so far!

## Licenses for SFrame & Turi Create

Turi Create and the SFrame package are available in [open-source under a
permissive BSD license](https://github.com/turi-code/SFrame). So, you will
always be able to use Turi Create and SFrames for free. The reason we suggest
you use Turi Create for this course is because this software will make it much
easier for you see machine learning in action and to help you complete your
assignments quickly.

# Upgrade Turi Create

If you are using Turi Create and already have it installed (e.g., from the first
course), please make sure you upgrade to the latest version!  The simplest way
to do this is to:

1.  Open terminal
1.  If you installed Turi Create in a virtual environment, activate that environment
1.  Run `pip install --upgrade`

# you only need to do this if you originally installed 
#   Turi Create in a virtualenv (recommended)
cd <folder_where_you_installed_virtualenv>
source <virtualenv_name>/bin/activate

# This line performs the upgrade
pip install --upgrade turicreate

# Resources

These are some good resources you can explore, if you are using the recommended
software tools:

* In the [first course of this ML specialization, Machine Learning
Foundations,](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ml-foundations) we provided many
tutorials and getting started guides. We recommend you go over those before
tackling this course.
* There are many Python resources available online. [Here is a good place for
documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/).
* For SFrame & Turi Create, there is also a lot of information available online.
Here are some starting points: the [User
Guide](https://apple.github.io/turicreate/docs/userguide/) and [detailed API
docs](https://apple.github.io/turicreate/docs/api/).
* For Numpy, here is a [getting started
guide](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-1.15.1/user/quickstart.html). We will
also provide a tutorial when itâ€™s time to use it.

# Installing the recommended software tools

### Downloading and installing Python, Jupyter Notebook and Turi Create on your own
machine

1.  If you do not already have Python installed, download and install Python 3.6.7:
[https://www.python.org/downloads/](https://www.python.org/downloads/).** Note:
it is highly recommended that you use version 3.6.7. Installing the latest
version of Python may not be compatible with Turi Create.**
1.  Download and install Jupyter Notebook:
[http://jupyter.org/install](http://jupyter.org/install). Follow the
instructions for "Installing Jupyter with pip", use the commands under the
section for Python 3
1.  Download and install Turi Create:
[https://github.com/apple/turicreate#installation](https://github.com/apple/turicreate#installation).
**Note: it is not required that you use virtualenv, but it might be helpful,
especially if you run into installation issues due to conflicting versions of
software.**

# Using other software packages

We strongly encourage you to use the recommended software packages for this
course, since they will allow you to learn the fundamental concepts more
quickly.  However, you are welcome to use other packages, e.g.,
[scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/) instead of Turi Create, or
Pandas instead of SFrame, or even R instead of Python.  If you choose to use all
these different packages, we will provide the datasets (in standard CSV format)
and the assignment questions will not depend specifically on the recommended
tools.


